everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is robert kiyosaki he's a
wildly successful entrepreneur and the
best-selling author of rich dad poor dad
the top-selling personal finance book of
all time he's written many books on the
subject of finance and proven through
his own real world investments that his
methods work helping to make him one of
the most sought after public speakers in
the world rounding out what is truly an
insane resume he was also a gunship
pilot during the vietnam war and was
awarded with the air medal in 1969 and
now today despite having achieved a very
uncommon level of success long after
most people his age have retired he
continues to pour himself into helping
the world become more financially
literate robert thank you so much for
joining me today
oh no it's my pleasure thank you and
congratulations on all your success
thank you man i really appreciate that
and right now um traditionally i haven't
had a lot of people on the show that
talk about finance
but in this time i think it's incredibly
important to be able to help people
navigate what is certainly going to be
the most devastating financial time in
any of our lifetimes for sure and your
insights
are very intriguing you certainly aren't
afraid to push back on what you think is
bs you're not afraid to just say it the
way that you see it um i'd love to get a
sense of what you think are the
like fundamentals of how people should
be thinking like the average person
should be thinking right now um during
this crazy time
well first of all there's no average
people you know we're all we all have
our unique skills and traits and
i i'm not one of these one-size-fits-all
first
and like when i when i listen to
so-called financial planners
you know they say
just
you know just give your money to them
and they'll invest in a well-diversified
portfolio stocks bonds mutual funds and
etfs
and for the average person that's not
bad advice
i don't do that stuff
so i think that's kind of to understand
it's because i don't have any stock
spots mutual funds or etfs i don't touch
the stuff
but on the other side of that is i don't
need to have that stuff you know i don't
know walk me through the mechanisms why
is it that um for the quote unquote
average person that's a reasonable play
but why do you not touch it
well it's because
you know i flew gun shops in vietnam
now you want to fly gunships in vietnam
you have some prep work to do
you know i was
i was talking to this school teacher
i didn't do well in school you can tell
i'm a c student
and uh you know i have a bachelor of
science degree which stands for bs
and all that stuff
and the best thing about that bs it
allowed me to be a marine lieutenant
instead of a gun instead of a marine
gunner
i could fly the gunship and that was a
qualified you know i mean that's what a
college degree did
so it was worth it from that point of
view and so that's talking to this one
guys well i have a private pilot's
license
okay and then you know those guys know
it's called the big duck he was like big
dug in me i got a private private
license
i don't even have a license
but i have air metals
he didn't know what an air metal was
you know air metal just meant how many
how many round trips did you take into
combat
and came back alive that's all i mean
doesn't mean i was a hero
or anything because i wasn't you know
we're just happy to bring my crew back
alive that's all we cared about
but to get to that level of flying
is the same as investing
and i think that's what i really learned
is the dedication not to be to be the
best pilot but be the best that i could
be and if i'm not the best that i can be
people die
and a lot of people it's okay to be
average
if you know what i mean but when you get
into that situation when you're
going in and out of his combat zones i
went down three times you know but i
wouldn't be back today if i hadn't
practiced to be the best
and so when i go into the world of money
and investing that i'm still not
you know i'm not zuckerberg or those
guys
but
you still have to be the best you want
you can be
and that's how i can be
you know investing in the stock market
with
diversified stock of
talk spots which of the etfs
if you're not willing to be the best
that you can be that's the best for you
you're an average person nothing wrong
with being average
but there's something inside each of us
that wants to be the best at something
right when was reading your uh
background i think that's what you're
pushing people asking people what do you
want to be the best at
and i just love the marine corps i hated
it when i was in it i tell you what
they're not polite
but
they demanded the best of it
so today i carry those traits
i went to military school and then i
went to you know five years of marine
corps and flying and all this
so when i hang out with my friends my
friends also want to be the best
and so in some of my
books and things i said look at the five
people you spend time with
you know if they're not striving to be
the best that's who you are too
you know i find your background in the
military really compelling and very
interesting um you're you're talking
about we maybe use different words but
it's possible that we're sort of saying
the same thing which is
my obsession right now for people is
skill acquisition so when you you talk
about getting shot down um that to me
feels like the moment that we're living
through right now something so
unexpected and so quite frankly
dangerous has happened and now it
becomes a question of who's going to
stay clear-headed who's not going to
panic i think panic is the worst enemy
that anybody could have right now so
getting control of your mind and then
being able to perform so i want to talk
about when you talk about you it took a
lot of preparation and you prepared to
be the best like
really truly in in terms of vietnam and
the military what did that look like
what did preparation and becoming the
best um take
well i got i got my bachelor of science
degree i had a high i've always had high
paying jobs high paying jobs not that
big a deal to me
so my first job was about 120 000 a year
back in the 60s that's quite this is
before you went to vietnam
yeah oh yeah yeah
and then
so making money has never been an issue
not me high-paying job as an employee
so that's kind of
it wasn't challenging so i want the
challenge
so the vietnam war was on when i
graduated and they drafted my kid
brother and i was draft exempt because i
was an employee of standard oil of
california driving oil tankers for them
up and down the california coast
so
i was set
22 years old high paying job career i
worked
seven months on five months off 120k a
year not much money today but back then
69 is a lot of money for sure
so i uh
my conscience gets to me and i think
that's really what you're i think what i
read about you is you're asking for
their souls
where is your soul
where's your spirit what do you mean by
that
because that's that's not
that's not where i'm headed now but i'm
very intrigued so what do you mean
where's where's your guts where's your
spirit man
if people you know
i you know i've been in shock i've lost
millions i've done all that but it's
your spirit that carries you out
and you know it's horrifying
you know when when i i never got shot
down but i lost my engine several times
because our aircraft was so tired and
just flying so hard you know
so every time my engine quit i had
already practiced crashing every single
day in flight school
so when it quit
it was like just flight school just
dropped
and most people avoid the terror of life
and so they try and live in a little
little
bandwidth called comfort i want to be
comfortable i won't be happy
i just want a safe secure job i want
security and all that and and so when i
stepped when i went to apply for the
marine corps i had to step it up
because i was bandwidth 120k a year
22 years old career set
you know
it was most horrifying feeling why did
you apply
because i wanted the next adventure
so you're 22 you're making good money
you see your brother get drafted and
unlike most people who are sort of
running in the opposite direction
you actively pursued getting into the
military so i practice what i'm
terrified at
and when i meet the average wimp out
there i am a marine
i don't hang out with wimps
and i said it earlier to you were your
five best friends and that's kind of i
selected
my new bunch of friends
and when i meet most people
most men and women i think today the
women are tougher than the men i hate to
say that
but you know i mean a lot of guys that
they just don't have it they have it but
they don't call on it
and so that's how i was talking you want
to find your soul where is your soul
you know what we'll sit up you know it's
like when i was when i each time i was
going down
i wasn't flying for me
i was flying for my two young gunners
you know 19 year old boys really with
kids already
if i didn't do the best job possible
taking that aircraft into the ocean
though their their kids were fatherless
and i when i meet people who don't have
it in life they don't really have that
soul in them
the soul is there let me wrong
it's there
but you don't need it yet
so today we're aware this i think we're
going into a major depression i hate to
say that but are you prepared for it i'm
prepared for it
you know i i wrote a book called rich
dad's prophecy and i said the biggest
stock market in history was coming in
2016. so the biggest crash in world
history came in march 2020.
we're going into a depression you know
hope not
but i would say there's a 60 chance for
a depression
now for somebody with a soul and a
spirit it's the greatest opportunity in
history
you know the world's changing i'm going
to get out of this thing i want to go
back to that um i find it the the notion
of practicing what terrifies you to be
incredibly powerful
i don't know that a lot of people know
how to translate that though into
real life like right now today
so
let's say somebody just lost their job
they don't have savings they're in panic
mode how do they begin to practice in
this time to build up the resilience to
become anti-fragile what does that look
like well let me ask you this okay if
you want to be a plumber right
you have to have skills
so he said well i want to be a plumber
well i don't i i don't have the skills i
can't be a plumber
well an entrepreneur has a different set
of skills than an employee
the reason i run companies the reason
i'm an entrepreneur is i have different
skills than they teach you at school
you know i don't want job security
you know security is the worst word in
the world for me you know so same as
when i had to learn to fly i had to
learn to fly without an engine
you can't fly without an engine you
shouldn't be a pilot you talk a lot
about the
the ability to go through a
metamorphosis and change have you always
been sort of a um tough ass or did you
did something change you in your teens
or early 20s you have to have skills
if you're
my father poor dad was a phd he had no
entrepreneurial skills
his whole life was based around fear the
fear of failing
he needed job security he could never
make it as an entrepreneur never
not with that spirit
can you change your spirit that's my
question yes of course you can get your
choice of friends every day you're
making that choice
so the thing that i when i when i was
still in the marine corps flying i came
back from vietnam went to station in
hawaii for my last year
at that point my poor dad you know says
to me
all your friends are going to fly for
the airlines so hawaiian airlines was
they needed pilots bad you know not like
today
but most of my friends got to fly for
united
and so my poor dad says why don't you
fly for united
i said something inside me said it's too
easy i can already fly
you know i already had a thousand hours
of flying in combat
so to go fly 747 not that challenging to
me
but she said but you're making 500 000 a
year as a chump change you see my
expectations of self a lot more than
500k a year this isn't this is in the
70s and 80s
i said i want a bigger challenge than
that now this is an interesting thing i
just finished my latest book who stole
my pension
my friends who flew for united their
pension was stolen
so they're all hosed
but they chose security
they chose security and what i did
instead of going to work for united
my rich dad my best friend's father says
you know you're not an entrepreneur so
why i said he says because you can't
sell
you're you're too shy
and he was just giving me a cellular
heart evaluation
you know he said to me my registered
says robert how's your sex wife i said i
don't know i can't get a date he says
because you can't sell you know so he
says
he says you can't handle rejection
you're not going to make him as an
entrepreneur
entrepreneurs there's a thousand
rejections to one
and he says you better get rejected
pretty quickly
so instead of looking for a job at
united airlines
hawaiian was hiring also i did that
but anyway
uh
i got a job with xerox because they had
sales training and then for two years i
was the worst salesman they ever had
i was going to get fired from xerox and
so i went to my rich dad and i said
terms of why
what's wrong he says how many sales
calls you make a day i said on a good
day three
he says that's why you're not successful
same formula he says you have to fail
more
he says you got to step up your failure
rate so i found a
nonprofit and at night
after working at xerox i would go to the
phone bank up the street from where i
was working in honolulu
and i had my head of gold i had to fail
35 times at night
so i just failed 35 times now
interesting thing happened
my numbers at xerox went up
you see i was handling that fear i was i
was handling the wimp in me the coward
and most people don't want to go through
the wimp
and that's why i don't really hang i
don't have much time for it
so i think the the idea of being able to
fail more fail faster makes a lot of
sense but i think you also have to be
able to assess what's going wrong
if you have a strategy and you just
keep running that strategy faster
and faster you might make some
incremental gains
but do you have a process for assessing
what's going wrong figuring things out
or has it always been having the mentor
that can sort of clear that blind spot
for you
well that's what we have a team for
you know
we have coaches
we have mentors teachers
my our you know this this coming friday
we're all getting together via zoom
and we're going to study
uh robert kennedy jr you know what he's
saying about
bill gates versus you know
vaccine i'm not i'm not a bax guy
but we get together study together
we're always studying we study
constantly we read books together and
all this
and when that when we have people i'm
not interested in studying then you're
not our friend
it's that simple i mean it's pretty
pretty clear just like in the marine
corps
when we're on at sea on a carrier we
have to run four miles a day no matter
what
so we get on the aircraft carrier deck
and we take laps
now i'd rather go sit in the coffee room
and smoke a cigarette and drink coffee
but my team ran together so when we
crashed we were ready
and and that's what leadership is you
have to bring people together and move
them forward
it's really sad you know a lot of days
there are days on missions i'd stand on
the deck and my friends don't come back
you know that's not return they're
missing an action today
and so those those are the kinds of
lessons for us to test your soul how
strong is your soul and we all have them
but most of us don't ever put ourselves
in the situation where we're testing our
soul and we all have it
i know that i've seen young men and
women just get stronger and stronger and
more resilient what you talk what you're
calling anti-fragile by talent but most
of those things are just buzzwords
buzzwords you know
yeah but oh yeah against the fourth
turning and this crap and that crap i'm
going just show me the money
show me your money show me your team you
know did this did this crash destroy you
or did it make you better
so right now i'm making money hand over
fist
for the same reason
prepared for it
so i want to start getting specific
you've thrown out um some really
powerful ideas like sales being super
critical what are a few lessons that you
learned from selling that have continued
to carry through your
life it's always shown me
i don't like you know in the marine
corps we call them whip jaws
all talk nothing going on
it's a i i'm gonna say it again who are
your five effin friends
that's it i heard you once say that um
you
had a lot of respect for um jfk and i'm
curious what was it about him that
resonated with you
carwich
know profiles and courage and all that
that was that was his book
and uh you inspired people
i'm not republican or democrat i vote
for the man or the woman
and but he inspired me um who out there
right now do you think has um great
advice for getting through this
difficult time and i'd love to know why
you think those particular people are
great
that's that's a great question i mean
your generation has the best teachers in
the world they're on youtube
they're not in colleges i mean the
people i run into on youtube
they're
they blow me away this guy george gammon
i've been seeing him the rebel
capitalist
holy mackerel young guy but your age
brilliant
and there's a brett johnson milkshake
theory i'm basically a finance guy
so i hang out with finance guys
you know i don't i don't watch martha
stewart at home cooking you know i don't
know i don't know if she has a website
or not but i don't watch him just i like
to eat i don't like to cook you know i
mean so all those things so i would say
uh george gamma g mmon he's fantastic
this guy patrick bet david is fantastic
london real brian rose they had the best
teachers on so you have more access to
great teachers than ever before
via youtube and their little handheld
devices
but it's up to you to choose what do i
want to learn
and and so i'm blown away at how many
great teachers are in the world today
i'm very impressed that's why i'm
honored to be on your program because
i'm the old guy i'm phasing out
and i can pass on the best i know
but i'm definitely not going to say to
go back to school and get your master's
degree and look for a secure job and
climb the corporate ladder i'm not your
teacher there that's my poor dad
so give us the if if you make an analogy
between finance
and your military training
so
you've got the guy who got the private
pilot's license took him six weeks took
you three years was much more dangerous
but the depth of knowledge is is more
usable is probably i'm the best way to
explain that what can people do now um
to learn the game of finance so what can
people be doing to practice to really
train to excel at this game in this
crazy time
well that's why in 1997 i created the
cash flow at 96th grade the cash flow
board game it's the only game that
teaches your accounting by having fun
so
the cash flow game i play at least 10
times because each time you play
learning something new
well what what the game is doing because
you have to move move pieces and right
and all this stuff
it's moving your neural pathways you
have to train you know the most
important thing is change the neural
pathways in your brain
and
and the brain is driven driven by your
heart and when i meet somebody with an
employee's brain
they say i want job security
i want i want a good pension do that
does that medical benefits
that's their brain
it's them i can't help them
they got to rewire the brain yeah
because the economy takes place between
this year and this year that's where the
economy takes place and in your heart
and in your guts
i started playing monopoly
i was nine years old and everybody's
played monopoly
except i played in real life
you know four greenhouses one red hotel
tax free
if you really if you're really gonna
learn to be rich you have to learn how
to sell how to use debt and how not to
pay taxes that's the game
all right well let's dive into those
details um you've talked about there's
three types of money i think that a lot
of people don't understand that if you
can explain that and then explain uh the
principles behind cash flow and monopoly
i think that'd be super helpful for
people
yeah well
there's three kinds of income
there's ordinary portfolio passive
so when you say to some poor kid go to
school get a job
they're working for ordinary income the
highest tax income in the world
i don't work ordinary income i don't
want a paycheck
passive income is generally what happens
when you invest in the stock market
i mean portfolio income
so they say well i bought tesla at 100
it went up to 200 i sold it so i made a
hundred dollars that's portfolio
that's taxed at the next higher level
so when i have passive income
it's tax free
getting passive income you have to know
what you're doing so that's why i have
the best
first of all bookkeeper
accounts attorneys bankers
i operate as a team just like my mind
when we flew into combat we're a team
and most people are trying to do it
self-employed way
you know i'm a good computer programmer
good
you pay the highest taxes you work the
hardest you don't get ahead that way
but that's what most people they want to
do it on their own you know if you want
it done right
do it by yourself
an employee is always saying the same
words you know this year and this year
i'm looking for a safe secure job with
of benefits and a paycheck and uh
pension
you got that
that's what they're looking for
so if i have a job well
and a self-employed person said how are
you good i'm the best
good i'll hire the best
but you the government's going to
penalize you for that because you're
because you're working for a quiet
blended income
but it's more passive
it's actually ordinary income but um
pay the highest taxes the tax law are
nothing but incentives not punishments
so if you donate if i i just donated
money to the food bank because
throughout a lot of food as well as ten
thousand bucks
i get a tax credit
i don't donate money to food bank no tax
break
so because i have seven thousand rentals
you know apartment houses
i got a tax break you know why because
i'm providing housing
and because i have thousands of
employees
the tax break the government even sent
me money to pay my employees
it's just a different game
it's like soccer and rugby are two
different games two different types of
players
and since my wife's a golfer you know i
play golf but i'm not i don't enjoy the
game she's fanatical
but she would be an s you know
self-employed type and all this stuff
she was going to do it on her own i i
cannot do my job on my own i cannot go
in the rugby field by myself
and when i go into the field of business
i don't go by myself bookkeeper
accountants attorneys bankers
and whoever else that's how we play the
game
so i i may be just coming at this from a
slightly different perspective so my
goal would be to help people right now
um that may struggle to put a roof over
their head or may struggle to eat i have
one last well first where can people
connect with you
that's rich dad.com
the most important thing for these
people right now is choose your teachers
wisely and i commend you for attempting
to help people as if i could leave
anything to you the people that are
listening to you right now commentable
they're they're looking they're looking
for answers
but it comes back down to who are your
five friends
and are you happy with it
or is it time to move on
man it's incredible that you've
continued to pour into people all these
years in i'm trying to help i really
really appreciate that what as my last
question what is the impact that you
want to have on the world
well i i i said to you thank you for
having me on your program this is an
impact at this present time
and i just think this is the neatest
format
you know you're a young man you're going
to evolve into a great great teacher
because i know you'll push yourself
you'll push yourself because you want to
help other people that's the most
commendable part
you may not do it the same way
but is it in your heart and soul
you want to give your give your fellow
human and
a better life so you keep up the good
work
thank you robert and thank you so much
for being on the show today i really
appreciate it guys if you're not
following him he's putting out
tremendous amounts of information the
books are incredible he's got a lot of
social content that i think will also
resonate and help people through this
time if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary one common mistake that
people make is they just try to cut a
little bit of everything five percent
here five percent there
life sucks when you do that and the
classic thing we've all heard is three
dollar lattes blah blah blah
saving three dollar lattes is not gonna
change your life at all